Austin Herring
CS281 - Systems Architecture I
Lab 6: VHDL Clock
email: awh44@drexel.edu

This lab was spent trying to create virtual representations of a clock and a program counter in
VHDL. All work was done on the tux machines, and the programs were run with testbenches by using
the makefile given in a previous lab, so there is nothing special to know about running them.

Finishing this lab was very easy. Though it took playing with how processes and variables work a
little bit, once those were understood, it was possible to create both the clock and the PC easily.

The clock was tested simply by creating a testbench and wiring a signal to the clock output. Then
it was assured that the clock signal was asserted and deasserted at the regular intervals it was
supposed to, and it did.

After that, the PC was tested by creating a testbench and wiring the VHDL clock to the clock input
of the PC. Then the input values to the PC were changed at random intervals, and it was assured
that the output changed only on rising clock edges (and that when it did change, it changed to the
correct value), and it did.

The results of the tests described above can be seen in the two provided waveform images,
clock_waveform.png and pc_waveforms.png

There is nothing particularly special or interesting about the lab, and the experience completing
was relatively straightforward. At this point, using VHDL has become rather routine. However,
as mentioned above, it did require becoming familiar with processes. However, after some testing
with some basic programs and some Googling, it revealed itself to be an easily understandable
construct. Once it was understood, everything else was rather straightforward; the clock only
needed to NOT itself repeatedly after given intervals, and the PC only required a simple if
statement so its output changed only on rising clock edges.

In the future, this lab probably does not have to be changed very much. (Though it should likely be
moved up in the term if possible, so that it's completed before the other projects requiring a clock
are (supposed to be) due.)

How files cover "What to Hand In":
1. clock.vhd
2. pc.vhd
3. clock_waveform.png
	pc_waveforms.png
	(tb_pc.vhd and tb_clock.vhd also included)
4. description.txt
